# DeepDPM
A Deep Learning Method for MoRFs Prediction Based on Dual-Branch Architecture Integrating Wavelet Transform and Dynamic Convolutional Attention Mechanism

The intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) of proteins play a crucial role in various biological functions, with their embedded molecular recognition features (MoRFs) closely associated with many important biological processes and diseases. Traditional MoRFs prediction methods are often expensive and time-consuming, necessitating the development of a more precise and efficient approach. To address this, we propose a novel deep learning model, DeepDPM, for MoRFs prediction. DeepDPM combines the Prot-T5 and ESM-2 pre-trained models to extract sequence information and structural information from proteins, respectively. It performs feature analysis by integrating the BioWaveKAN module, mLSTM, optimized Transformer, and Mamba network, we have designed an innovative dual-branch fusion module, BiLCrossAttention, which effectively integrates temporal and spatial information using a weighted dual-channel cross-attention mechanism. We have also innovatively optimized the Focal Loss function to tackle sample imbalance, enhancing the model's ability to recognize key regions. On the newly constructed Test1 and Test2 datasets, DeepDPM outperformed five state-of-the-art methods. It achieved Matthew's Correlation Coefficient (MCC) values of 77.39% and 69.08%, respectively, and Area Under the Curve (AUC) values of 97.60% and 92.87%, respectively. These results demonstrate that DeepDPM exhibits reliable and highly accurate performance in the Molecular Recognition Features (MoRFs) prediction task.
